# dream-team-bs

Welcome to Dream Team Bootstrap !
Custom imports and styles for Dream Team project with Sass and Javascript.

## Table of contents
- [Initialize the project](#initialize-the-project)
- [Create a custom Bootstrap](#create-a-custom-bootstrap)
   - [Sass](#sass)
   - [Javascript](#javascript)
- [Commands summary](#commands-summary)

## Initialize the project
Make sure you have installed in latest version :
- Node
- Visual Studio Code (or any IDE of your choice)
- Git bash

#### #1 Clone the repository
HTTPS
```bash
https://github.com/fabienAstia/dream-team-bs.git
```

#### #2 Install dependencies
Run NPM 
```bash
npm install
```

## Create a custom Bootstrap
### Sass
Customize your Bootstrap styles by modifying or adding variables in the `custom.scss` file (location root : src/scss/custom.scss). 

Choose your Bootstrap modules in the `imports.scss` file (location root : src/scss/custom.scss).

The project uses [Sass](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sass) (a distribution of Dart Sass) to compile and minify the CSS output. 

To compile and minify, run
```bash
npm start
```

This will update two files in the dist/ folder:
 - `custom-bs.css` : CSS version of all customs and imports
 - `custom-bs.min.css` : minified CSS version

These files can be directly linked to your HTML to apply your style. Please, prefer to use the **minified version**.

Now, the project is enter in watching mode. Every time you'll make a change in custom.scss, the code will be compiled and minified.

*Tip : You can use the index.html file and go live (Live Server extension) to see changes.*

### Javascript
Choose your Javascript modules in the `main.js` file (location root : src/js/main.js).

#### Option 1 : Esbuild (Popper bundled)
*If you want to bundle Popper in your minified file, follow this section.*

The project uses [esbuild](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sass) to compile and minify the JS output. 

EsBuild bundle the JavaScript with an **older version of Bootstrap**, which includes Popper.

To compile and minify the Javascript, run
```bash
npm run build-js
```
This method will output a minified JS file (like sass section). You can link it to your header. However, note that this method works only with an older version of Bootstrap since Popper is no longer bundled with the latest version. 

#### Option 2 : Rollup (Popper CDN)
*If you want to use the last Bootstrap version, follow this section.*

In this option, the project uses [Rollup](https://www.npmjs.com/package/rollup) to compile and minify the JS output. 
Popper/Core is include manually via CDN link.

First, add the following CDN to your HTML’s <head> :
```
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@popperjs/core@2.9.2/dist/umd/popper.min.js" integrity="sha384-IQsoLXl5PILFhosVNubq5LC7Qb9DXgDA9i+tQ8Zj3iwWAwPtgFTxbJ8NT4GN1R8p" crossorigin="anonymous"></script>
```
Place it between min.css link and min.js link.

<head> should look like :
```
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../dist/dream-team-bs.min.css">
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@popperjs/core@2.9.2/dist/umd/popper.min.js" integrity="sha384-IQsoLXl5PILFhosVNubq5LC7Qb9DXgDA9i+tQ8Zj3iwWAwPtgFTxbJ8NT4GN1R8p" crossorigin="anonymous"></script>
<script type="module" src="../dist/dream-team-bs.umd.min.js"></script>
```

Now, you can choose the configuration you need for your javascript in `rollup.config.js` or you can use the default configuration already in place.

To bundle your imports and configuration, run :
```bash
npm run build-bs
```
As before, this will generate a minified JS file. You can link it to your head.

## Commands summary
Use bash
 - `npm run start` Compiles Sass into CSS and watches changes
 - `npm run build-js` Esbuild option - bundle with Popper (older Bootstrap)
 - `npm run build-bs` Rollup option - using CDN for Popper (last Bootstrap)

At any time, you can modify commands in `package.json`
